Communication on teams is essential for high performance and often one of the first things to break down. Team members and managers that promote healthy communication can turn bad situations into good ones, failing projects into successful projects, and poor performers into good employees.

As with our other sample performance review phrases articles, we break down our sample communication performance evaluation phrases into positive and negative. Positive sample performance appraisal phrases are for employees meeting or exceeding expectations, while negative sample performance review phrases are for unsatisfactory or failure to meet expectations employees. As with our other sample performance review phrases, you can use these for self evaluations as well.

Positive Communication Sample Performance Review Phrases
David keeps managers and coworkers informed of his work progress.

Barry reports necessary information to his coworkers.

Allison is excellent at keeping written information about her assignments and projects.

One of Jim’s strengths is his use of candor and effective communication with his employees.

One of Jane’s core strengths is her ability to immediately connect with someone.

Brenda is very competent communicator.

Tom clearly communicates with his employees and they understand his expectations.

Ted is clearly very good at communication as evidenced by his effectiveness in resolving customer problems.

At first, communication was not Bill’s strongest attribute. However, after a lot of work, Bill has become a very good communicator.

Communication is the ability to talk or the ability to hear, it is a combination of talking, hearing, and understanding. Jenny is the perfect mix of those three things.

When a difficult message must be conveyed in a clear and consistent manner, I always turn to Tricia to handle it. Tricia is very good at imparting message.

Though at times I may find it difficult to communicate with some types of people, Bob seems to have a natural gift of communication.

Jane is very good at crafting a message that is not only well understood, but promotes healthy conversation and debate with the staff. Jane handles each of these situations with ease.

Harry is very good at communicating. I think back to several situations this year that needed a delicate understanding and Harry handled each one well.

Kevin can communicate a message effectively so staff members understand it.

Lyle likes to speak with someone until they understand and this attribute has made him a very good communicator.

Polly is effective in the written and verbal word.

Jack’s years of experience communicating is evident in his wonderful communication skills.

Wendy has the valuable skill of communicating difficult concepts in easy to understand language.

Communication is part art and part science – Tim is an artist with his words and forms them together to demonstrate an ease with the science of communication.

Jane is a successful communicator who is at ease in both written and verbal communications.

Peter is quite good at communicating difficult messages with employees, management, and customers.

As an employee, Ted was good at communication, as a manager, Ted has proved an even more effective communicator. His communication skills have improved tremendously this year.

Kyle is an adept communicator and is one of the best business writers I have had the pleasure of working with. Kyle communicates very well through his reports and white papers.

Cameron is very good at written communication, however his verbal communication skills can be improved. Cameron should work on being an active listener.

Negative Communication Sample Performance Evaluation Phrases
Tim continually attempts to withhold information from team members.

Peter has proved to be an ineffective communicator.

Jim does not effectively communicate – both written and verbal communication must be improved.

Tony does not adequately share information as required in his role. He has a tendency to keep things close to the vest.

At a bare minimum, Tom needs to improve his communication skills with his co-workers. Preferably, Tom will learn to improve his communications with other employees and management.

Jim’s ability to explain complex topics is insufficient due to his unwillingness to share information with others.

Despite other areas of strength for Ben, communication continues to be substandard. Ben consistently fails to properly notify team members about impending changes or other required information.

Jack needs to share department and corporate goals in a more timely and complete manner. Jack’s employees do not understand what the company is doing.

Lyle does not articulate his position very well during meetings.

George’s position requires him to have sufficient technical skills, however, he does not speak up during technical meetings to discuss potential solutions.

Over the past year, Terry has not performed very well in creating an honest and open environment for the employees he supervises.

Jenny must improve her foreign language skills to stay competitive in this industry.

Greg is not adept at documenting verbal communication. Over the next 90 days, Greg should work on this skill.

Holly frequently provides mixed messages to people on her team.

Customers have frequently complained about unresponsiveness from Tim.

Ken does not adequately use email and frequently ignores messages sent to him.

Paul’s employees are often the last to know of changes at the company. Paul should increase the frequency of his communications with staff members.

Bob has a tendency to ramble at meetings and discuss unimportant things.

Pete works on confidential projects frequently and must not discuss the items he learns with fellow staff members.

One of Todd’s roles is to find consensus among his team members, but he has frequently failed to accomplish this task.

Fred does not communicate effectively and clearly.

Tricia holds too many meetings; fewer would be more effective.

Brian should communicate project status updates more frequently.

Tom lacks credibility in his messages. His co-workers do not believe he is honest.

Justine does not convey a positive image of the company to customers.

Your Feedback
We’d love your feedback! Suggest Attitude performance evaluation phrases to add to our performance review database. This will help others when they fill out their performance or self evaluations.

WRITTEN AND VERBAL COMMUNICATION
EXCEPTIONAL: CONSISTENTLY EXCEEDS EXPECTATIONS
Is a master of written communication

Is the go-to person when others need help with writing

Has the most readable writing in the company

Keeps e-mail messages on target and to the point

Has clear, direct, and concise writing

Writes without grammatical errors

Creates reports and documentation that are consistently outstanding

Is a compelling speaker

Says more by saying less

Actively listens to others

Thinks before he talks

Uses captivating language

Gives highly organized presentations

Is a superb public speaker

Is totally comfortable in front of a group

Is known as the company wordsmith

Is a great debater

Is a great communicator

Is an enthralling speaker who easily holds the attention of others

Reads other people well

Senses when others are on data overload and when they need more information

EXCELLENT: FREQUENTLY EXCEEDS EXPECTATIONS
Has very readable writing

Hits the perfect level of detail

Writes to the point, rather than around it

Is a gifted writer

Has raised the writing in her department to a new level

Sets the standard for excellent business writing

Proofreads carefully

Carefully crafts all his writing

Is always well organized with her written work

Selects the appropriate writing style for different readers and situations

Holds the interest of others in his writing

Is a clear and articulate communicator

Has an outstanding vocabulary, but never overdoes it

Generates a great deal of interest whenever she speaks

Communicates easily with everyone

Is an excellent writing coach

Effectively reads subtle cues and body language

Is smooth without being slick

FULLY COMPETENT: MEETS EXPECTATIONS
Is confident and comfortable with writing projects

Is at ease and effective in front of a group

Prepares thoroughly before making presentations

Communicates easily with employees at all levels

Is not inclined to talk for the sake of talking

Is a good listener

Uses words effectively and economically

Is clear and informative when speaking or writing

Avoids excessive use of jargon

Writes with very few grammatical errors

MARGINAL: OCCASIONALLY FAILS TO MEET EXPECTATIONS
Uses a writing style that can be difficult to understand

Hasn’t shown interest in becoming a better writer

Procrastinates on projects that involve writing

Sends e-mail messages that are unclear

Writes too much on every project

Has writing that lacks adequate detail and specificity

Doesn’t listen carefully enough, and communication suffers as a result

Speaks without organizing his thoughts

Provides too much detail

Doesn’t provide enough detail

Uses e-mail style for formal written business communications

Needs to listen more and talk less

UNSATISFACTORY: CONSISTENTLY FAILS TO MEET EXPECTATIONS
Writes with numerous grammatical errors and typos

Takes a long time to get to the point

Ignores punctuation

Is a grammatical nightmare

Tends to ramble

Tends to mumble

Uses inappropriate terms and expressions

Is insensitive to others in her comments

Is unaware of messages that his body language is sending

Produces work that always needs significant editing

Often uses the wrong words

Rushes when writing, and it shows

Doesn’t pay attention to the cues and body language of others

Doesn’t listen


